Graphql with django (#52)
Codecademy/ugc: content/smyja/how-to-use-graphql-with-django.md

This tutorial will cover the creation of a CRUD(create,read,update,delete)graphql api for a restaurant with django.

 **Properties of Graphql**:

The following terms would be used a lot when interacting with graphql. It is important that you know them, though we wouldn't cover all of them in this tutorial.

- schema
- query
- Nesting
- Mutation
- Subscription
- Resolvers

**Schema:** 
GraphQl Schema describes the functionality available to the client applications that connect to it. 

**Query:**
A Query is a type on a schema that defines the kind of operations that can be done to read or fetch data. Queries represent the `GET` request.

**Resolvers:**
They are functions that return values for fields that exist on types in a schema. 

**Mutation:**
A mutation is a type on a schema that defines the kind of operations that can be done to modify data.

**Subscription:**
Subscriptions in graphql are for notifying your client server in real time about changes in the data.

**Nesting:**
A nested query is a query that is a child of another query.

> ## Setting up graphql with django
> First, we need to install Django and create a project. I will be using a bash script i created to do this.
> [Django-bash-script](https://github.com/Smyja/Django-bash)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setting up GraphQL with Django

First, we need to install Django and create a project. I will be using a [bash script](https://github.com/Smyja/Django-bash) I created to do this.

```

> To use graphql with django, you will need to install graphene-django
> 
> ```pip install graphene-django```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use GraphQL with Django, you will need to install the `graphene-django` package:

`pip install graphene-django`
```

Reviewer: For the readers, can we also include 1-2 brief sentences about [Graphene](https://docs.graphene-python.org/en/stable/quickstart/#what-is-graphene), what it is, and why we are using it in this article?

Reviewer: Also, if the code snippet is on one single line, we only need to surround with **one** back-tick; we surround with three back-ticks only if the code is _mult-line_ like on line # 62.

> Add it to your settings.py file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add it to your `settings.py` file:

```

Couple points here:

- When referring to files or folders used in the article, surround with single back-ticks.
- Similar to markdown headings, multi-line code snippets should have one empty line above and below them.

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

INSTALLED_APPS = [
    'graphene_django',

    # ...
]
```

> If you run the server, you see this error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If you run the server, you will see this error:

```

> ```ImportError: cannot import name 'force_text' from 'django.utils.encoding```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ImportError: cannot import name 'force_text' from 'django.utils.encoding`
```

> add this to your settings.py file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following to the top of your `settings.py` file:
```

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

import django
from django.utils.encoding import force_str

> django.utils.encoding.force_text = force_str
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
django.utils.encoding.force_text = force_str
```

```

> or downgrade your django version.

Reviewer: This part seems confusing? Why would the reader need to downgrade from Django version 4.0.4?

Author: The graphene package isn't compatible with Django 4.0>, `force_text` was removed from Django 4.0> but graphene_django still uses instead of `force_str`

> Create a Models.py file in your project that contains tthe models you want to use.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `Models.py` file in your project that contains the models you want to use:
```

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

> from django.db import models
> class Restaurant(models.Model):
>     name = models.CharField(max_length=100)
>     address = models.CharField(max_length=200)
> 
>     def __str__(self):
>         return self.name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from django.db import models

class Restaurant(models.Model):
    name = models.CharField(max_length=100)
    address = models.CharField(max_length=200)

    def __str__(self):
        return self.name
```

```

> 
> 
> Add a graphql route to your urls.py file for django 2.0 and above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Add a GraphQL route to your `urls.py` file for Django version 2.0 and above:
```

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

from graphene_django.views import GraphQLView
from django.views.decorators.csrf import csrf_exempt
from djql.schema import schema #change djql to your app name

urlpatterns = [
    path("graphql", csrf_exempt(GraphQLView.as_view(graphiql=True, schema=schema))),
]
```

> Graphql comes with an api browser similar to django's browsable api that you can use to test your queries and mutations. If you do not want to use it, you can set the `graphiql` parameter to False.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GraphQL comes with an API browser, [GraphiQL](https://graphiql-test.netlify.app/typedoc/), that is similar to Django's browsable API where you can use to test your queries and mutations. This is done with the `graphiql` parameter of the `.as_view()` method. However, if you do not want to use it, you can set `graphiql` to `False`.
```

> The fourth import statement ```from djql.schema import schema``` is the schema that we will use to create our queries. Create a `schema.py` file in your project directory or your app directory.
> Django's csrf_exempt decorator is used to allow API clients to POST to the graphql endpoint we have created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The fourth `import` statement `from djql.schema import schema` is the schema that we will use to create our queries. Create a `schema.py` file in your project directory or your app directory.

Django's `csrf_exempt` decorator is used to allow API clients to POST to the GraphQL endpoint we have created.
```

"The _fourth_ import statement..."?? I only counted three?

Author: You're right, in my file there are 3. It's actually supposed to be 3.

> Create a Graphql Type for your models on your schema.py file as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a GraphQL type for your models on your `schema.py` file as shown below:

```

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

import graphene
from graphene_django import DjangoObjectType
from djql.models import Restaurant

class Query(graphene.ObjectType):
    """
    Queries for the Restaurant model
    """
    restaurants = graphene.List(RestaurantType)

    def resolve_restaurants(self, info, **kwargs):
      return Restaurant.objects.all()

```
Start the django server with `python manage.py runsrver` then visit the `/graphql` route to see the api browser, it should look like this

![Api browser](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Smyja/ugc/grahql-with-django/content/smyja/api-browser.png)

> To get the list of Restaurants run a query with this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the list of restaurants with specific data like name and address, run a query with this:

```

```graphql
query {
    restaurants {
        id
        name
        address
    }
}

```

> Output should look like this:
> ![list of restaurants](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Smyja/ugc/grahql-with-django/content/smyja/restaurant-list.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The output should look like this:

![list of restaurants](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Smyja/ugc/grahql-with-django/content/smyja/restaurant-list.png)
```

> 
> 
> To modify any data in our database we would need to create a mutation.
> Below is the Create Restaurant mutation,add it to the `schema.py` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To modify any data in our database we would need to create a mutation.
Below is the `CreateRestaurant` mutation, which we will add to the `schema.py` file.

```

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

class CreateRestaurant(graphene.Mutation):
    class Arguments:
        name = graphene.String()
        address = graphene.String()

    ok = graphene.Boolean() 
    restaurant = graphene.Field(RestaurantType)

    def mutate(self, info, name, address):
        restaurant = Restaurant(name=name, address=address)
        restaurant.save()

        return CreateRestaurant(ok=True, restaurant=restaurant)
```

> The CreateRestaurant Mutation takes in the model fields as argument while the mutate function is where the db change happens using django's orm.
> 
> Create a Mutation class then Initialize the mutation with the schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The `CreateRestaurant` mutation takes in the model fields as arguments while the `mutate()` function is where the db change happens using Django's object-relational mapper (ORM).

Create a `Mutation` class then initialize the mutation with the schema.

```

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

class Mutation(graphene.ObjectType):
    create_restaurant = CreateRestaurant.Field()
```

> After adding the mutation and query, define the schema at the end of the `schema.py` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

After adding the mutation and query, define the schema at the end of the `schema.py` file.
```

> ```schema = graphene.Schema(query=Query, mutation=Mutation)```

Reviewer: I would change this to a \```py code snippet and place this code between the opening and closing back-ticks.

Author: Okay, I'll do so.

> Start the server and a run a mutation with the graphql api browser using this 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start the server and a run a mutation with the GraphQL API browser using this:
```

```graphql
mutation {
    createRestaurant(name: "Kada Plaza", address: "Lekki GARDENS") {
        ok
        restaurant {
            id
            name
            address
        }
    }
}
```

> The mutation returns a restaurant object with the fields that were passed in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The mutation returns a restaurant object with the fields that were passed in.
```

> Once the mutation is created, we can use it to delete a restaurant.
> To delete a restaurant, we would need to create a mutation.
> Below is the Delete Restaurant mutation,add it to the `schema.py` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete a restaurant, we would need to create a mutation. Below is the `DeleteRestaurant` mutation. Let's add it to our `schema.py` file.

```

```python
class DeleteRestaurant(graphene.Mutation):
    class Arguments:
        id = graphene.Int()

    ok = graphene.Boolean()

    def mutate(self, info, id):
        restaurant = Restaurant.objects.get(id=id)
        restaurant.delete()

        return DeleteRestaurant(ok=True)
```

> Add Delete Restaurant mutation to the Mutation class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Next, we'll add the `DeleteRestaurant` mutation to the `Mutation` class:
```

> ```delete_restaurant = DeleteRestaurant.Field()```

Reviewer: I would change this to a ```py code snippet and place this code between the opening and closing back-ticks.

> Run the mutation with the graphql api browser using this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the mutation with the GraphQL API browser using this.
```

```graphql  
    mutation {
        deleteRestaurant(id: 1) {
            ok
        }
    }
```

> Pass the restaurant id as an argument to the mutation as shown above.
> Output should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Pass the restaurant id as an argument to the mutation as shown above. Output should look like this:

```

```json
{
    "data": {
        "deleteRestaurant": {
            "ok": true
        }
    }
}
```

>     Note: Run a query to get the list of restaurants again to see the change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Note**: We should run a query to get the list of restaurants again to see the change.
```

> To update a restaurant, we would need to create a mutation.
> Below is the Update Restaurant mutation,add it to the `schema.py` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update a restaurant, we would need to create a mutation. Below is the `UpdateRestaurant` mutation. We will add it to the `schema.py` file:
```

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

class UpdateRestaurant(graphene.Mutation):
    class Arguments:
        id = graphene.Int()
        name = graphene.String()
        address = graphene.String()

    ok = graphene.Boolean()
    restaurant = graphene.Field(RestaurantType)

    def mutate(self, info, id, name, address):
        restaurant = Restaurant.objects.get(id=id)
        restaurant.name = name
        restaurant.address = address
        restaurant.save()

        return UpdateRestaurant(ok=True, restaurant=restaurant)
```

> Add Update Restaurant mutation to the Mutation class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Let's add the `UpdateRestaurant` mutation to the `Mutation` class:
```

> ```update_restaurant = UpdateRestaurant.Field()```

Reviewer: I would change this to a ```py code snippet and place this code between the opening and closing back-ticks.

Author: I made a change.

> Run the mutation with the graphql api browser using this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the mutation with the GraphQL API browser using this:

```

``` graphql
    mutation {
        updateRestaurant(id: 2, name: "Kada Plaza Ltd", address: "Lekki Gardens") {
            ok
            restaurant {
                id
                name
                address
            }
        }
    }
``` 

> Output should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The output should look like this:

```

```json
{
    "data": {
        "updateRestaurant": {
            "ok": true,
            "restaurant": {
                "id": 2,
                "name": "Kada Plaza Ltd",
                "address": "Lekki Gardens"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> ### Conclusion
> Graphql allows you request for what you want from your database without creating separate endpoints for each request. We have been able to build CRUD api using graphql that would have needed to create separate endpoints for each request for REST api.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Conclusion

GraphQL lets you request for what you want from your database without creating separate endpoints for each request. In this article, we built a CRUD application with Django using GraphQL queries and mutations.
```

---
Title: "How to Use GraphQL With Django"
Description: "A guide on how to use GraphQL with Django."
DatePublished: "2022-06-05"

> Categories:
>   - "web-development"
>   - "computer-science"
> Tags:
>   - "APIs"
>   - "Django"
>   - "Python"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Categories:
  - "python"
  - "web-development"
  - "computer-science"
Tags:
  - "APIs"
  - "Django"
```

Looks like "Python" is not in [tags.md](https://github.com/Codecademy/ugc/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). However, it _is_ in [categories.md](https://github.com/Codecademy/ugc/blob/main/documentation/categories.md) under language slugs (but in lowercase).

This change should also hopefully resolve the failing GitHub check we're getting.

## Properties of GraphQL

The following terms would be used a lot when interacting with graphql. It is important that you know them, though we wouldn't cover all of them in this tutorial.

- **Schema**: Describes the functionality available to the client applications that connect to it.
- **Query**: A schema type that represents the `GET` request and defines the operations that can be used for reading or fetching data.
- **Nesting**: Queries can be nested inside of other queries.
- **Mutation**: A schema type that defines the kind of operations that can be done to modify data.
- **Subscription**: Notifies the client server in real time about updates to the data.
- **Resolvers**: Functions that return values for fields associated with existing schema types.

## Setting up GraphQL with Django

First, we need to install Django and create a project. I will be using a [bash script](https://github.com/Smyja/Django-bash) I created to do this.

To use GraphQL with Django, you will need to install the `graphene-django` package:

`pip install graphene-django`

Add it to your `settings.py` file:

```py

> INSTALLED_APPS = [
>     'graphene_django',
> 
>     # ...
> ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
INSTALLED_APPS = [
  'graphene_django',

  # ...
]
```

Reviewer: This is what i mean about changing the indent from 4 spaces to 2 spaces

Author: Oh, okay.

- **Nesting**: Queries can be nested inside of other queries.
- **Mutation**: A schema type that defines the kind of operations that can be done to modify data.
- **Subscription**: Notifies the client server in real time about updates to the data.
- **Resolvers**: Functions that return values for fields associated with existing schema types.

## Setting up GraphQL with Django

First, we need to install Django and create a project. I will be using a [bash script](https://github.com/Smyja/Django-bash) I created to do this.

To use GraphQL with Django, you will need to install the `graphene-django` package:

`pip install graphene-django`

Add it to your `settings.py` file:

```py
INSTALLED_APPS = [
  'graphene_django',

  # ...
]
```

If you run the server, you will see this error:

`ImportError: cannot import name 'force_text' from 'django.utils.encoding`

Add the following to the top of your `settings.py` file:

```py
import django
from django.utils.encoding import force_str

django.utils.encoding.force_text = force_str

```
or downgrade your django version.

> Create a `Models.py` file in your project that contains the models you want to use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `Models.py` file in your project that contains the models you want to use:

```

To modify any data in our database we would need to create a mutation.
Below is the `CreateRestaurant` mutation, which we will add to the `schema.py` file.

```py
class CreateRestaurant(graphene.Mutation):
    class Arguments:
        name = graphene.String()
        address = graphene.String()

    ok = graphene.Boolean() 
    restaurant = graphene.Field(RestaurantType)

    def mutate(self, info, name, address):
        restaurant = Restaurant(name=name, address=address)
        restaurant.save()

        return CreateRestaurant(ok=True, restaurant=restaurant)
```

The `CreateRestaurant` mutation takes in the model fields as arguments while the `mutate()` function is where the db change happens using Django's object-relational mapper (ORM).

Create a `Mutation` class then initialize the mutation with the schema.

```py
class Mutation(graphene.ObjectType):
    create_restaurant = CreateRestaurant.Field()
```

After adding the mutation and query, define the schema at the end of the `schema.py` file.

```py
schema = graphene.Schema(query=Query, mutation=Mutation)
```

Start the server and a run a mutation with the GraphQL API browser using this:

```graphql

> mutation {
>     createRestaurant(name: "Kada Plaza", address: "Lekki GARDENS") {
>         ok
>         restaurant {
>             id
>             name
>             address
>         }
>     }
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mutation {
  createRestaurant(name: "Kada Plaza", address: "Lekki GARDENS") {
      ok
      restaurant {
          id
          name
          address
      }
  }
}
```

```

The mutation returns a restaurant object with the fields that were passed in.

To delete a restaurant, we would need to create a mutation. Below is the `DeleteRestaurant` mutation. Let's add it to our `schema.py` file.

```python

> class DeleteRestaurant(graphene.Mutation):
>     class Arguments:
>         id = graphene.Int()
> 
>     ok = graphene.Boolean()
> 
>     def mutate(self, info, id):
>         restaurant = Restaurant.objects.get(id=id)
>         restaurant.delete()
> 
>         return DeleteRestaurant(ok=True)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class DeleteRestaurant(graphene.Mutation):
  class Arguments:
      id = graphene.Int()

  ok = graphene.Boolean()

  def mutate(self, info, id):
      restaurant = Restaurant.objects.get(id=id)
      restaurant.delete()

      return DeleteRestaurant(ok=True)
```

```

Next, we'll add the `DeleteRestaurant` mutation to the `Mutation` class:

```py
delete_restaurant = DeleteRestaurant.Field()
```

Run the mutation with the GraphQL API browser using this.

```graphql  

>     mutation {
>         deleteRestaurant(id: 1) {
>             ok
>         }
>     }

Reviewer: Is this `mutation` supposed to be nested inside some outer object-like structure? If not I suggest doing away with the leading whitespace:

```suggestion
mutation {
  deleteRestaurant(id: 1) {
    ok
  }
}
```

```

Pass the restaurant id as an argument to the mutation as shown above. Output should look like this:

```json

> {
>     "data": {
>         "deleteRestaurant": {
>             "ok": true
>         }
>     }
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{
  "data": {
      "deleteRestaurant": {
          "ok": true
      }
  }
}
```

```

**Note**: We should run a query to get the list of restaurants again to see the change.

> To update a restaurant, we would need to create a mutation. Below is the `UpdateRestaurant` mutation. We will add it to the `schema.py` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update a restaurant, we would need to create a mutation. Below is the `UpdateRestaurant` mutation. We will add it to the `schema.py` file:

```

```py

> class UpdateRestaurant(graphene.Mutation):
>     class Arguments:
>         id = graphene.Int()
>         name = graphene.String()
>         address = graphene.String()
> 
>     ok = graphene.Boolean()
>     restaurant = graphene.Field(RestaurantType)
> 
>     def mutate(self, info, id, name, address):
>         restaurant = Restaurant.objects.get(id=id)
>         restaurant.name = name
>         restaurant.address = address
>         restaurant.save()
> 
>         return UpdateRestaurant(ok=True, restaurant=restaurant)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class UpdateRestaurant(graphene.Mutation):
  class Arguments:
      id = graphene.Int()
      name = graphene.String()
      address = graphene.String()

  ok = graphene.Boolean()
  restaurant = graphene.Field(RestaurantType)

  def mutate(self, info, id, name, address):
      restaurant = Restaurant.objects.get(id=id)
      restaurant.name = name
      restaurant.address = address
      restaurant.save()

      return UpdateRestaurant(ok=True, restaurant=restaurant)
```

```

Let's add the `UpdateRestaurant` mutation to the `Mutation` class:

```py
update_restaurant = UpdateRestaurant.Field()
```

Run the mutation with the GraphQL API browser using this:

``` graphql

>     mutation {
>         updateRestaurant(id: 2, name: "Kada Plaza Ltd", address: "Lekki Gardens") {
>             ok
>             restaurant {
>                 id
>                 name
>                 address
>             }
>         }
>     }

Reviewer: Same question here, is this `mutation` a part of a larger GraphQL structure (hence, the indentation)? If not, I suggest the following:

```suggestion
mutation {
  updateRestaurant(id: 2, name: "Kada Plaza Ltd", address: "Lekki Gardens") {
    ok
    restaurant {
      id
      name
      address
    }
  }
}
```

``` 

The output should look like this:

```json

> {
>     "data": {
>         "updateRestaurant": {
>             "ok": true,
>             "restaurant": {
>                 "id": 2,
>                 "name": "Kada Plaza Ltd",
>                 "address": "Lekki Gardens"
>             }
>         }
>     }
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{
  "data": {
      "updateRestaurant": {
          "ok": true,
          "restaurant": {
              "id": 2,
              "name": "Kada Plaza Ltd",
              "address": "Lekki Gardens"
          }
      }
  }
}
```

This tutorial will cover the creation of a CRUD (create, read, update, delete) GraphQL API for a restaurant with Django.

## Properties of GraphQL

The following terms are often used when interacting with GraphQL. Knowing them can be helpful, though we won't be covering all of them in this tutorial.

- **Schema**: Describes the functionality available to the client applications that connect to it.
- **Query**: A schema type that represents the `GET` request and defines the operations that can be used for reading or fetching data.
- **Nesting**: Queries can be nested inside of other queries.
- **Mutation**: A schema type that defines the kind of operations that can be done to modify data.
- **Subscription**: Notifies the client server in real time about updates to the data.
- **Resolvers**: Functions that return values for fields associated with existing schema types.

## Setting up GraphQL with Django

First, we need to install Django and create a project. I will be using a [bash script](https://github.com/Smyja/Django-bash) I created to do this.

> 

Reviewer: @Smyja So I noticed after entering the prompts that I got the following error in the terminal:

<img width="871" alt="Screen Shot 2022-06-16 at 9 11 40 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/23144845/174077340-874f1e65-ffd9-47f4-ac7a-934c74655b2c.png">

This also seems to have doubled-up the variables in the `urls.py` file.

<img width="642" alt="Screen Shot 2022-06-16 at 9 12 28 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/23144845/174077405-35444bd1-601a-46ab-9354-961f2c4cbb7d.png">

Also doesn't look like `include` was ultimately written to the `urls.py` file? Any thoughts on how to proceed?

> 

Author: I'll go through this and give you a feedback, a quick check shows that [the error is related to MacOs](https://stackoverflow.com/a/21243111/6499765) which I didn't test for. I'll run everything again later today.

## Properties of GraphQL

The following terms are often used when interacting with GraphQL. Knowing them can be helpful, though we won't be covering all of them in this tutorial.

- **Schema**: Describes the functionality available to the client applications that connect to it.
- **Query**: A schema type that represents the `GET` request and defines the operations that can be used for reading or fetching data.
- **Nesting**: Queries can be nested inside of other queries.
- **Mutation**: A schema type that defines the kind of operations that can be done to modify data.
- **Subscription**: Notifies the client server in real time about updates to the data.
- **Resolvers**: Functions that return values for fields associated with existing schema types.

## Setting up GraphQL with Django

First, we need to install Django and create a project. Run  ```virtualenv venv```  to setup a virtual environment. Then, run ```source venv/bin/activate``` on Linux/MacOs or ```source/scripts/activate``` on windows to activate the virtual environment. 

Next,install django with ```pip install django``` and run ```django-admin startproject project .``` to create a new project.

> Create an app in the project with ```python manage.py startapp myapp``` . Add the app to the project's ```INSTALLED_APPS``` like this

Reviewer: Sorry, I meant to suggest "within", not "without".

```graphql
query {
    restaurants {
        id
        name
        address
    }
}

```

The output should look like this:

![list of restaurants](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Smyja/ugc/grahql-with-django/content/smyja/restaurant-list.png)

To modify any data in our database we would need to create a mutation.
Below is the `CreateRestaurant` mutation, which we will add to the `schema.py` file.

```py
class CreateRestaurant(graphene.Mutation):
    class Arguments:
        name = graphene.String()
        address = graphene.String()

    ok = graphene.Boolean() 
    restaurant = graphene.Field(RestaurantType)

    def mutate(self, info, name, address):
        restaurant = Restaurant(name=name, address=address)
        restaurant.save()

        return CreateRestaurant(ok=True, restaurant=restaurant)
```

The `CreateRestaurant` mutation takes in the model fields as arguments while the `mutate()` function is where the db change happens using Django's object-relational mapper (ORM).

Create a `Mutation` class then initialize the mutation with the schema.

```py
class Mutation(graphene.ObjectType):
    create_restaurant = CreateRestaurant.Field()
```

> After adding the mutation, pass the mutation to the schema at the end of the `schema.py` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After adding the mutation, let's pass the mutation to the schema at the end of the `schema.py` file.
```

mutation {
    createRestaurant(name: "Kada Plaza", address: "Lekki GARDENS") {
        ok
        restaurant {
            id
            name
            address
        }
    }
}
```

The mutation returns a restaurant object with the fields that were passed in.

To delete a restaurant, we would need to create a mutation. Below is the `DeleteRestaurant` mutation. Let's add it to our `schema.py` file.

```python
class DeleteRestaurant(graphene.Mutation):
    class Arguments:
        id = graphene.Int()

    ok = graphene.Boolean()

    def mutate(self, info, id):
        restaurant = Restaurant.objects.get(id=id)
        restaurant.delete()

        return DeleteRestaurant(ok=True)
```

Next, we'll add the `DeleteRestaurant` mutation to the `Mutation` class:

```py
delete_restaurant = DeleteRestaurant.Field()
```

Run the mutation to delete a restaurant with the GraphQL API browser using this.

```graphql  
    mutation {
        deleteRestaurant(id: 1) {
            ok
        }
    }
```

Pass the restaurant id as an argument to the mutation as shown above. Output should look like this:

```json
{
  "data": {
      "deleteRestaurant": {
          "ok": true
      }
  }

> }

Author: I actually set my vscode to two spaces,it seems it didn't work.

```

**Note**: We should run a query to get the list of restaurants again to see the change.

To update a restaurant, we would need to create a mutation. Below is the `UpdateRestaurant` mutation. We will add it to the `schema.py` file:

```py
class UpdateRestaurant(graphene.Mutation):
  class Arguments:
      id = graphene.Int()
      name = graphene.String()
      address = graphene.String()

  ok = graphene.Boolean()
  restaurant = graphene.Field(RestaurantType)

  def mutate(self, info, id, name, address):
      restaurant = Restaurant.objects.get(id=id)
      restaurant.name = name
      restaurant.address = address
      restaurant.save()

      return UpdateRestaurant(ok=True, restaurant=restaurant)
```

Let's add the `UpdateRestaurant` mutation to the `Mutation` class:

```py
update_restaurant = UpdateRestaurant.Field()
```

> Run the mutation with the GraphQL API browser using this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll now run the mutation on the browser like so:
```

``` graphql
mutation {
  updateRestaurant(id: 2, name: "Kada Plaza Ltd", address: "Lekki Gardens") {
    ok
    restaurant {
      id
      name
      address
    }
  }
}
``` 

The output should look like this:

```json

> {
>   "data": {
>       "updateRestaurant": {
>           "ok": true,
>           "restaurant": {
>               "id": 2,
>               "name": "Kada Plaza Ltd",
>               "address": "Lekki Gardens"
>           }
>       }
>   }
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{
  "data": {
    "updateRestaurant": {
        "ok": true,
        "restaurant": {
            "id": 2,
            "name": "Kada Plaza Ltd",
            "address": "Lekki Gardens"
        }
    }
  }
}
```

---
Title: "How To Use GraphQL With Django"
Description: "A guide on how to use GraphQL with Django."
DatePublished: "2022-06-05"
Categories:
  - "python"
  - "web-development"
  - "computer-science"
Tags:
  - "APIs"
  - "Django"
  - "Queries"
CatalogContent:
  - "python-for-programmers"
  - "paths/full-stack-engineer-career-path"
---

_**Prerequisites:** Understanding of Python, the Command Line, and Django._  
_**Versions:** Django 4.0.4, Python 3.8.10, virtualenv 20.15.1_

### Introduction

[GraphQL](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/graphql) is a query language for [APIs](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/api) and a runtime for fulfilling those queries with existing data. Unlike a REST API, GraphQL APIs do not require verbs (`PUT`, `POST`, `GET`, `PATCH`, and `DELETE`) for requests, nor do they need multiple endpoints. They have just one endpoint and making a query to that endpoint is all that's needed. 

> This tutorial will cover the creation of a CRUD (create, read, update, and delete) GraphQL API for a restaurant with Django.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial will cover the creation of a CRUD (create, read, update, and delete) GraphQL API with Django providing a list of restaurants.
```

Reviewer 2: Doesn't seem to be an API _for_ a restaurant.

- **Nesting**: Queries can be nested inside of other queries.
- **Mutation**: A schema type that defines the kind of operations that can be done to modify data.
- **Subscription**: Notifies the client server in real time about updates to the data.
- **Resolver**: Functions that return values for fields associated with existing schema types.

## Step 1: setting up our virtual environment

First, we are going to create and launch a virtual environment for our project with the `virtualenv` package (which can be [installed via `pip`](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/installation.html#via-pip). While not necessary for starting a new Django project, working in separate environments is generally a best practice that mitigates conflicts between sites. Let's open a [terminal](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/terminal) and create a new environment named `my_env` by running the following:

```bash
virtualenv my_env
```

Next, we will activate our new environment `my_env` with either of the following commands:

```bash
# Linux/macOS
source my_env/bin/activate

# Windows
source/scripts/activate
```

> Let's go to the next step.

Reviewer 2: I'd delete this line. It's filler and doesn't add anything.

## Step 2: creating our Django project

> Next, if we haven't already, let's [install](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/install/#how-to-install-django) the `Django` package. Then, let's create a new project called `restaurant_graphql_api` and change into it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, if we haven't already, let's [install](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/install/#how-to-install-django) the `Django` package. 

Once we've done that, let's create a new project called `restaurant_graphql_api` and change into it:
```

Reviewer 2: Just a clarification, as having these two distinct steps in the same paragraph might lead to some confusion.

```bash
django-admin startproject restaurant_graphql_api
cd restaurant_graphql_api
```

Next, we're going to create a new application within our project called `my_app` by running the following:

```bash
python manage.py startapp my_app
```

Then, we'll add `my_app` to our list of `INSTALLED_APPS` in our `settings.py` file under the `restaurant-graphql_api/` directory:

```py
INSTALLED_APPS = [
  'my_app',
  'django.contrib.admin',
  'django.contrib.auth',
  # ...
]
```

## Step 3: using GraphQL with `graphene-django`

To use GraphQL with Django, we will need to install the [`graphene-django`](https://docs.graphene-python.org/projects/django/en/latest/) package.

```bash
pip install graphene-django
```

> This will help add GraphQL functionality to our restaurant Django app such as resolvers and mutations. Next, let's add `'graphene_django'` to the list of `INSTALLED_APPS` in our `settings.py` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will add GraphQL functionality to our restaurant Django app such as resolvers and mutations. Next, let's add `'graphene_django'` to the list of `INSTALLED_APPS` in our `settings.py` file:
```

```py
INSTALLED_APPS = [
  'graphene_django',
  'my_app',
  'django.contrib.admin',
  # ...
]
```

> Let's go to the `models.py` file in our project and then define a new `Restaurant` class:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, let's go to the `models.py` file in our project and then define a new `Restaurant` class:
```

```py
from django.db import models

class Restaurant(models.Model):
  name = models.CharField(max_length=100)
  address = models.CharField(max_length=200)

  def __str__(self):
    return self.name
```

> Inside the `Restaurant` class model above, we defined a few fields, `name` and `address`, along with a `__str__()` [dunder method](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/dunder-methods) that returns the `name` of the restaurant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inside the `Restaurant` class model above, we've defined a few fields, `name` and `address`, along with a `__str__()` [dunder method](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/dunder-methods) that returns the `name` of the restaurant.
```

Next, let's register our new `Restaurant` model in the `admin.py` file of our application:

```py
from django.contrib import admin
from . import models

admin.site.register(models.Restaurant)
```

It is now time to create and perform a migration for this new data. This will allow our `Restaurant` model to be referenced in a GraphQL schema (which we will define later on). To make the migration, we can run `python manage.py makemigrations`; to apply the migrations, let's run `python manage.py migrate`.

By now, we may encounter the following error:

```shell
ImportError: cannot import name 'force_text' from 'django.utils.encoding
```

The `ImportError` is due to Django 4.0 not supporting the `force_text` variable (which the `graphene` package uses with earlier versions of Django). To resolve this, we can add the following to our `settings.py` file:

```py
import django
from django.utils.encoding import force_str

django.utils.encoding.force_text = force_str
```

> Alternatively, we can downgrade our Django version to 3.2.x. At this point, it would be good to run `python manage.py runserver` and check `http://127.0.0.1:8000` on a browser to ensure our application starts properly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, we can downgrade our Django version to 3.2.x. 

After this, it would be good to run `python manage.py runserver` and check `http://127.0.0.1:8000` on a browser to ensure our application starts properly.
```

 
```py
schema = graphene.Schema(query=Query)
```

The entire `schema.py` file should look like this:

```py
import graphene
from graphene_django import DjangoObjectType
from my_app.models import Restaurant

class RestaurantType(DjangoObjectType):
  class Meta:
      model = Restaurant
      fields = ("id", "name", "address")

class Query(graphene.ObjectType):
  """
  Queries for the Restaurant model
  """
  restaurants = graphene.List(RestaurantType)

  def resolve_restaurants(self, info, **kwargs):
    return Restaurant.objects.all()

schema = graphene.Schema(query=Query)
```

Let's now import the `schema` variable into the `my_app/urls.py` file and pass it to the Graphql view as seen below:

```py
from my_app.schema import schema

url_patterns = [
  path("graphql", csrf_exempt(GraphQLView.as_view(graphiql=True, schema=schema))),
]
```

Let's run the Django server with `python manage.py runserver` then visit the `/graphql` route to see the GraphiQL browser, which should look like this:

![API browser](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Smyja/ugc/grahql-with-django/content/smyja/api-browser.png)

Let's quickly test our query by doing the following:

> 1. Create a superuser account by running `python manage.py createsuperuser` and following the prompts to create a username and password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a superuser account by running `python manage.py createsuperuser` in the terminal window, and following the prompts to create a username and password.
```

> 2. Log into our application as an admin by visiting the `"/admin"` URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Log into our application as an admin by visiting the `"/admin"` URL in the browser.
```

3. Add restaurants to the database by interacting with the admin dashboard.

To get the list of restaurants with specific data like `name` and `address`, we can type and run the following query on the browser:

```graphql
query {
  restaurants {
    id
    name
    address
  }
}
```

The output should look like this:

![list of restaurants](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Smyja/ugc/grahql-with-django/content/smyja/restaurant-list.png)

## Step 5: mutating the database

> To modify any data in our GraphQL database we would need to create a mutation. In this step, we're going to build three mutations for creating, updating, and deleting data in our database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To modify any data in our GraphQL database we need to create a mutation. In this step, we're going to build three mutations for creating, updating, and deleting data in our database.
```

```

Start the server and a run a mutation with the GraphQL API browser using this:

```graphql
mutation {
  createRestaurant(name: "Kada Plaza", address: "Lekki GARDENS") {
    ok
    restaurant {
        id
        name
        address
    }
  }
}
```

The mutation returns a restaurant object with the fields that were passed in.

Let's now define a `DeleteRestaurant` mutation that removes a single restaurant from our database. We'll add it to our `schema.py` file between our `CreateRestaurant` and `Mutation` classes:

```py
class DeleteRestaurant(graphene.Mutation):
  class Arguments:
    id = graphene.Int()

  ok = graphene.Boolean()

  def mutate(self, info, id):
    restaurant = Restaurant.objects.get(id=id)
    restaurant.delete()
    return DeleteRestaurant(ok=True)
```

Next, we'll add the `DeleteRestaurant` mutation to the `Mutation` class:

```py
class Mutation(graphene.ObjectType):
  create_restaurant = CreateRestaurant.Field()
  delete_restaurant = DeleteRestaurant.Field()
```

Next, let's run the mutation on the browser to delete a restaurant from our GraphQL database:

```graphql
mutation {
  deleteRestaurant(id: 1) {
    ok
  }
}
```

> Pass the restaurant id as an argument to the mutation as shown above. Output should look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We pass the restaurant id as an argument to the mutation as shown above. The output should look like this:
```

- **Schema**: Describes the functionality available to the client applications that connect to it.
- **Query**: A schema type that represents the `GET` request and defines the operations that can be used for reading or fetching data.
- **Nesting**: Queries can be nested inside of other queries.
- **Mutation**: A schema type that defines the kind of operations that can be done to modify data.
- **Subscription**: Notifies the client server in real time about updates to the data.
- **Resolver**: Functions that return values for fields associated with existing schema types.

## Step 1: setting up our virtual environment

First, we are going to create and launch a virtual environment for our project with the `virtualenv` package (which can be [installed via `pip`](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/installation.html#via-pip). While not necessary for starting a new Django project, working in separate environments is generally a best practice that mitigates conflicts between sites. Let's open a [terminal](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/terminal) and create a new environment named `my_env` by running the following:

```bash
virtualenv my_env
```

> Next, will activate our new environment `my_env` with either of the following commands:

Author: Thank you.

Next, let's import the `include()` function to add the app urls to our `restaurants_graphql_api/urls.py` file (for our entire Django _project_):

```py
from django.urls import path, include

urlpatterns = [
    path("admin/", admin.site.urls),
    path("", include("my_app.urls")),
]
```

## Step 4: building a GraphQL schema

Let's create a new file in our `my_app` directory called `schema.py`. Inside, we'll define a new type fo the `Restaurant` model we previously created:

```py
import graphene
from graphene_django import DjangoObjectType
from my_app.models import Restaurant

class RestaurantType(DjangoObjectType):
  class Meta:
    model = Restaurant
    fields = ("id", "name", "address")
```

Our `RestaurantType` class borrows from the `DjangoObjectType` class. The inner-`Meta` class is where general type attributes like `model` and `fields` are defined.

> Below here, let's next create a `Query` type class for the `Restaurant` model:

Author: Thank you, i just noticed this.

```

After adding the mutation, let's pass the mutation to the schema at the end of the `schema.py` file.

```py
schema = graphene.Schema(query=Query, mutation=Mutation)
```

Start the server and a run a mutation with the GraphQL API browser using this:

```graphql
mutation {
  createRestaurant(name: "Kada Plaza", address: "Lekki GARDENS") {
    ok
    restaurant {
        id
        name
        address
    }
  }
}
```

The mutation returns a restaurant object with the fields that were passed in.

Let now define a `DeleteRestaurant` mutation that removes a single restaurant from our database. We'll add it to our `schema.py` file between our `CreateRestaurant` and `Mutation` classes:

```py
class DeleteRestaurant(graphene.Mutation):
  class Arguments:
    id = graphene.Int()

  ok = graphene.Boolean()

  def mutate(self, info, id):
    restaurant = Restaurant.objects.get(id=id)
    restaurant.delete()
    return DeleteRestaurant(ok=True)
```

Next, we'll add the `DeleteRestaurant` mutation to the `Mutation` class:

```py
class Mutation(graphene.ObjectType):
  create_restaurant = CreateRestaurant.Field()
  delete_restaurant = DeleteRestaurant.Field()
```

> Next, let's run the mutation on the browser to delete a restaurant from our GraphQL databsae:

Author: Thanks

class UpdateRestaurant(graphene.Mutation):
  class Arguments:
    id = graphene.Int()
    name = graphene.String()
    address = graphene.String()

  ok = graphene.Boolean()
  restaurant = graphene.Field(RestaurantType)

  def mutate(self, info, id, name, address):
    restaurant = Restaurant.objects.get(id=id)
    restaurant.name = name
    restaurant.address = address
    restaurant.save()
    return UpdateRestaurant(ok=True, restaurant=restaurant)
```

Let's add the `UpdateRestaurant` mutation to the `Mutation` class:

```py
class Mutation(graphene.ObjectType):
  create_restaurant = CreateRestaurant.Field()
  delete_restaurant = DeleteRestaurant.Field()
  update_restaurant = UpdateRestaurant.Field()
```

We'll now run the mutation on the browser like so:

``` graphql
mutation {
  updateRestaurant(id: 2, name: "Kada Plaza Ltd", address: "Lekki Gardens") {
    ok
    restaurant {
      id
      name
      address
    }
  }
}
``` 

The output should look like this:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "updateRestaurant": {
      "ok": true,
      "restaurant": {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Kada Plaza Ltd",
        "address": "Lekki Gardens"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Conclusion

> GraphQL lets us make requests from our database without creating separate endpoints for each request. In this article, we built a CRUD application with Django using GraphQL queries and mutations. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
GraphQL allows us to make requests from our database without creating separate endpoints for each request. In this article, we built a CRUD application with Django using GraphQL queries and mutations. 
```
